Chris Li
CS 342
Prof. Vanderlinden
2/1/17
Guide 1 Assignment

1a. Data - the facts that we can store inside a database. These facts can be names, id 
number, telephone number, address, etc. for example.
      Database – A collection of data. It often stores a specific subject of content of data 
for a specific purpose. Such as a mobile phone storing contact information to help the 
user find people.
      Database Management System – A system that deals with creating, editing, deleting, 
and other maintenance of a database. 
      Information System – An organized network that collects and distributes data. It 
deals with the transfer of data.

1b. Standard data structures such as lists and arrays contain data but are often 
inefficient when it comes to searching through and retrieving data. One must search 
through each slot of data until the desired piece of data is found. Databases are quickly 
capable of finding the desired data via queries and relevant searching.
      The database approach defines data one and contains it in one space. Users then 
access it via queries. File systems are redundant in comparison as it has to contain 
separate files about the same thing due to each piece of information being branched off 
to its most relevant category.

1c. Database Admins, Designers, System Analysts, Programmers.

2a. Having different categories of data models allows for the database structure to be 
easily understood by users as with High-level or conceptual data models, but also 
explains how the data is truly stored within the computer. Figure 2.1 is a Relational 
database. It uses schema type data and defines each attribute and its relationship to the 
database,

2b. The three-schema architecture is to separate the user functions from the physical 
database. It starts with an internal level which uses an internal schema to define 
physical storage structure and access paths for the database. The next level is the 
conceptual level which shares info regarding the structure of the database to users. It 
describes data entities such as data types, relationships, user operations, and 
constraints. It hides information about the physical storage space. Lastly, the external 
level describes which part of the database that a user would be interested in and 
conceals the rest of the data information.

2c. In a standard two-tier architecture, one of the tiers would be the client side which 
deals with UI and local processing. The other tier is the server side which contains the 
hardware and software to provide service to all clients that attempt to contact it. In a 
three-tier architecture, there is a middle tier known as an application server. They often 
run applications and store procedures. These can serve as a security check when 
attempting to access data from the server side by requiring credentials from the user.
